Knee Ability Zero - Zero weights needed. Zero equipment needed for the lower body exercises. Zero need to work through pain. Zero special abilities needed to start. Welcome to Knee Ability Zero.
Back Ability Zero - Maybe you don’t have a “bad back” - maybe you’ve accumulated other legit problems over the course of your life which now leave your back as a pressure point of undue stress. Now we can gradually work our way toward the lower back, improving the areas that free it up, then addressing the lower back itself with the final step of each workout.
ATG Basics - From beginner to advanced, this program can be done at any stage of your ATG journey! The WHY behind this program is broken down in its full article in the Study section: "The ATG Basics Program"
Dense Strength - I believe 12 weeks of Dense can create a different foundation for the rest of your life.
Male Standards - The goal of this program is no weak or tight links! The results have been people like me, with average or even below average genetics, winding up freaky resilient and athletic!
ATG Pro -If you’re willing to do anything - no matter how unusual compared to the norm - to see what your TRUE athletic potential is, I recommend this program for you. But merely by learning and mastering it, you’ll be able to help just about anyone, at any level.
ATG For Distance - This is a simple program based on the success of ATGers who have competed in distance running. The theories behind it are detailed in an “ATG Clues For Distance Running” article in the study section.
Dense For Speed - I was crazy to think I could manufacture an elite basketball body but that's exactly what I did off training alone. Now one of our certified ATG Trainers, Brendan (@lowbackability), is even crazier and thinks he can take his crap genetics to the Olympics for sprinting! Alternating phases of these Dense & Standards versions is his plan to do it!
Speed Standards - In each exercise you will find our current strength numbers specifically for speed! What if your speed potential is greater than you know? With this approach of reverse engineering speed into measurable exercises, you can train the exact qualities observed in the world's fastest! This puts your speed in YOUR hands. (And your legs lol!)
Ankle - I’ve used this data for myself and others after ankle sprains. Not only did we find we could recover faster than expected, we were able to CONTINUE building the ankles from a weak link to a STRONG one, even more protected than before the injury! Which is the exact opposite of modern stats.
Shoulder - This protocol is designed to increase your ability to handle and transfer forces through your shoulders - the stronger you become while increasing range of motion through these movements will bulletproof you against injury and allow you to exert higher forces i.e. punching, throwing , serving, etc. You can do this 3 to 4 times per week.
Wrist - This protocol can be added after workouts in any program. Feel free to send in questions and form videos!
Elbow - The elbow protocol is a simple routine that can be added as extra work 1-3 times per week and is recommended to help enhance your elbow ability & bulletproofing. These are the core exercises that have helped countless members with compromised elbows get out of pain.
Groin - Tweaks in the groin can be a nuisance to overcome — so we reverse-engineered a simple 3-day a week program designed to bolster this area towards greater levels of Groin Ability.
Shin - Shin pain caused me a lot of anguish and cost me a lot of money over an 8-year period. But it didn’t have to. Here’s how…
Foot - This is a very basic 3x per week formula to get the feet progressing in ABILITY. Experience has shown me that a vast amount of foot problems are simply lack of training of the strength and flexibility of the feet, since Squats, Deadlifts, Leg Presses, Leg Extensions - all the most-used weightroom exercises - lack foot movement and loading!
Hip - This is designed to get the hips an increase of ability, which has resulted in hundreds of reports of decreased pain and increased freedom with the hips. But the goal is always just an increase of PAIN-FREE ABILITY. That's it. All the success stories for overcoming injuries is a welcomed byproduct.
Gym Mobility - This was designed for off-days from the ATG Shred workout flows.
Home Mobility - This routine is made by Mother Nature, so you may not need it, since you may not have lost these positions. But if you’ve gone years without embracing these positions due to chronic pain or injury or surgery, this can be a life-changing routine for your joints and spine. This can be done with any ATG Program or in place of a gym mobility routine.
ATG Muscle - This program is designed to maximize muscle growth by using a full spectrum of intensity on your muscles. You will reach a deeper burn than probably ever before by using up all stored energy and triple barreling all the fibers with maximal work being done.
ATG Shred Phase 1 - Phase 1: 6 Weeks. Each session flows “from the ground up” from ankle to knee to hip to shoulder to elbow, therefore requiring very little breaks. This turns the unique ATG bulletproofing and athleticism benefits into a potent body comp workout, shifting the body to less fat and more muscle!
ATG Shred Phase 2 - Phase 2: 6 Weeks. On Phase 2, we now drop the repetitions per set but increase the difficulty of each rep. Use less assistance or increase the weight on the bar. By now you should have some endurance built up, so now do 4 rounds in under 45 mins.
Home Shred - I realized that even my own foundation has a ways to go, and this program is so simple it can be done from a bedroom! Slant squats should be as easy as push-ups. Nordic control should be as easy as pull-up control. Even at HQ, I’m regularly doing the Zero version of ATG Shred!
Ben's Personal Shred - Shred is a concept: start at the ankle, then knee, then hip, then shoulder. The next day, train the opposite sides of the body in the same manner. I don’t like to exercise for more than 30 mins per day, so I made this version to suit my preference and goals. Feel free to ask questions along the way, as we can help personalize your version to YOU.
ATG-Style PHA - "I fear not the man who has practiced 10,000 kicks once, but I fear the man who has practiced one kick 10,000 times." - Bruce Lee. I did a 15-minute audio recording to break down how I've been training for the past 12 weeks. You can ask your Coach for the podcast link, or find it here: Click on Profile > Support > FAQs
